hello thank you very much for joining
the the 10k subscribers celebration
champagne flower necklace
congratulations sign I've gone all out
I'm even wearing an appropriate t-shirt
I don't know how well you can all see
this but I'm wearing my sort of American
dollar t-shirt because today you've all
voted this week that you want me to
explain the Millennium problems and
these of course are the seven biggest
unsolved problems in all of maths and
each of them is worth a nice cool 1
million dollars so I figured wearing my
my million dollar t-shirt was pretty
appropriate for the topic that I'm going
to be discussing during the livestream
so the plan is as I said you've all
voted for this you wanted to hear about
a million problems so I'm gonna try my
best to cover as many of them as I can
so of course there are seven so I'm
going to do six of them sort of short
and sweet
some of them I'll go into more detail
than others as you will see that kind of
depends on how much I like them and how
much I feel I can confidently talk about
them and explain the maths behind them
because of course they're all cool I
should emphasize this too even a
mathematician such as myself and then so
I'm gonna do the first six and then at
the end when I get to navier-stokes
which of course is the one I do know
more about being my area of research
fluid mechanics for navier-stokes again
you all voted and wanted to see me
perform equations stripped live for
navier-stokes so that's the plan I'll do
the other six millennium problems first
I don't know exactly how long that will
take we'll see how carried away I get
and how you know I guess what questions
you guys asked as well and then at the
end I will do the seventh and final
millennium problem as navier-stokes and
I will do it in the form of equation
stripped so there will be some level of
nudity I will obviously not go beyond my
boxes this being family-friendly
or being YouTube but just as a warning I
will be at some point taking off my
clothes towards the end of the
livestream so without further ado I
guess I'd better get started talking
about Malini
problems I just have another sip of my
champagne so as you can see this is my
second glass this is why I forgot to
turn my lights on at the beginning I've
been very much enjoying myself today and
preparing for this livestream making the
most of the fact that it's a celebration
so if you're all unfortunately YouTube
doesn't let me see people tuning in but
if you're all there at home grab
yourselves a glass of champagne this is
definitely a celebration right so
millennium problems this is where we're
gonna kick off and I also should have
mentioned I of course have a nice new
studio she may have noticed apart from
the Wardrobe kind of blocking part of
the board other than that we've got a
nice newer setup going on here so I hope
you like it
so the Millennium problems these are the
the seven biggest unsolved problems in
maths at the turn of the millennium so
the idea here was pretty much I do
remember this I was about 10 at the time
and I do remember when the new
millennium was happening when the year
2000 was coming around it was quite a
big deal right you know we're alive at
the turn of a millennium it's pretty
exciting and everybody kind of wanted to
like jump on the bandwagon and do
something special to celebrate the fact
that it was a new millennium this like
y2k as it was also known for some reason
sounded cooler back thirty years ago and
maths basically got on board with this
idea so maths as a subject as a field
decided we should do something special
to also celebrate the millennium and the
Clay Institute a mathematical Institute
in America which supports lots of
educational activities and research they
have lots of money that they give out to
various good sort of projects they
decided that they wanted to help to
encourage more people to do maths and do
maths research and one of the ideas they
came up with it was to create the
Millennium problems so this is the list
of 7 biggest unsolved problems in the
year 2000 this is decided by a group
that called the Scientific Advisory
Board of the clay Institute and
the scientific advisory board was made
up of very famous mathematicians at the
time so Sir Michael is here was on the
advisory board and as was John Nash
who's very famous sort of his work in
economics and maths and the overlap
there so I'm along with various other
big-name sort of mathematicians at the
time and between them they decided on
what they thought were the seven biggest
unsolved problems in maths and then said
right the clay Institute we're gonna
give whoever can solve these problems a
million dollars so the sort of the the
gauntlet the challenge was set the
gauntlet was laid and I guess some of us
anyway as mathematicians I've been
trying to solve these problems ever
since to try and earn the million
dollars so the first one I'm going to
talk about is perhaps the most famous so
I'm going to start with of course
riemann and a Riemann hypothesis so I
might just remove my congratulations
sign just so I have more board space so
I'll just take that down I kind of done
with it being like a ribbon or something
so I could wear like a congratulations
sash or something really but okay so I
tell you what I'll do I'll stick it on
my I'll stick it on my wardrobe so it's
still in the shot right because as I
said this is very much a celebration
this isn't your usual live stream this
is we're having fun celebrating maths
and celebrating all of you guys being
super awesome they're subscribing to my
channel ok so the first I'm going to do
is the the Riemann hypothesis so what is
the Riemann hypothesis Riemann
hypothesis all right
so in in short the Riemann hypothesis
asks when is the following function Zeta
of s when is this equal to zero and this
function can be written as the sum from
N equals 1 to infinity of 1 over N to
the power s so the Riemann hypothesis is
all to do with this Riemann zeta
function which looks like this it's just
a sum of various powers
of the integers and here is going from
one to infinity so the whole numbers and
we're going to add all of these things
together and we want to know when could
this possibly be zero that's ultimately
fundamentally what the Riemann
hypothesis is asking and as well as what
I need to know when this is zero or
sorry we want to know when it's zero but
the Riemann hypothesis in particular
says that all of the non-trivial zeros
of this function have the real part of s
equal to 1/2 so s here in this formula
is a complex number it could also be of
course a real number because real
numbers are a subset of the complex
numbers so s here can be a complex
number and the Riemann hypothesis
basically says all of the non-trivial
zeros have the real part of s equal to
1/2 and you get a million dollars if you
can prove or disprove this statement so
disproving it in theory would be really
easy because if you are if you need to
disprove this statement you've just got
to find one value of s that makes this
sum zero when the real part of s is not
1/2 if you can find that particular
value of s that makes this function zero
and the real part of s is not 1/2 you
get a million dollars right so you can
disprove it you don't have to have a
proof so if you can do that you get a
million dollars and what we actually
think is true is that this is true I
think the vast vast vast majority over
99% of mathematicians would agree with
me I hope that the Riemann hypothesis we
think it should be true so to actually
do the proof is way more involved than
coming up with the counter example but
we think that it is true so therefore
you are going to need to prove it
so you either prove this statement or
find a counter example and you get your
million dollars
now the
the Riemann hypothesis when it's
discussed in general terms is talked
about as something to do with the prime
numbers right so often it's said that if
we were able to have a proof of the
Riemann hypothesis or able to solve the
Riemann hypothesis it would really help
us when it came to understanding the
prime numbers it's having some more
something it'll really help us to
understand the prime numbers and what I
thought would be perhaps interesting to
do here rather than going to really
really complex discussions about
analytic continuation and various things
that require a maths degree I thought
it'd be more fun for us to try and think
about what this function the Riemann
zeta function has to do with the prime
numbers okay so there's a famous formula
which was courtesy of Euler which says
that the zeta function Z 2 of s here
which is the sum of 1 over N to the
power s can in fact be expressed and
this is courtesy of Euler can be
expressed as the product over P prime of
1 divided by 1 minus P to the minus s so
this is saying that the sum from N
equals 1 to infinity of 1 divided by n
to the power s or some fixed value of s
is equal to according to a favorite or
my favorite mathematician Leonhard Euler
is equal to the product over all of all
possible prime numbers of this thing
multiplied together where each P you
have a different prime number and again
this is true for a fixed value of s in
each of these locations now this is
something that if you know anything
about Riemann hypothesis Riemann
zeta-function
you've probably come across this result
before you've probably seen somewhere
that the zeta function is equal to this
product of primes but I think or at
least something I actually wasn't really
aware of until like surprisingly
recently with how you can actually prove
this how do you go about showing that
this summation is equal to this product
so it's an infinite sum and an infinite
product so trying to show there
well is actually quite fun calculation
so that's what we're gonna go through so
I need my board eraser the way I like to
think about this is as follows
so I have let's write out z2 of s sort
of as a sum right so if I were to say I
can say that 0 s is equal to the first
term is 1 over 1 to the S so that's just
1 then I've got plus 1 over 2 to the S
plus 1 over 3 to the S plus 1 over 4 to
the S Plus and then we just carry on dot
dot forever now we've got to turn this
into a product involving prime numbers
and this actually uses a very clever
technique from the Greeks which is
called the prime number sieve and it
works as follows
you start by considering 1/2 to the s
times Zeta of s so this is why it's
called a prime sieve because 2 of course
is a prime number so I'm considering
multiplying a prime number by my actual
function and when I do this let's just
write out what it is I get 1 over 1
times 1 over 2 to the S is 1 over 2 zs 1
over 2 3 s has 1 over 2 to the S that's
just 1 over 4 to the S 1 over 2 times 3
so that's 1 over 6 to the S etc so this
particular expression contains all of
the even numbers on the denominator so
we go 2 4 6 8 we just have all of the
even numbers on our denominator now if I
therefore do the top line 0 best minus
the bottom 1 then I will get Z 2 of s
times 1 minus
that so this is Z 2 of s minus Z 2 of s
divided by 2 to the S which this term
then I've got all of the numbers minus
the even numbers so I just get the odd
numbers that's when I left with so this
thing will just be 1 plus 1 over 3 so
the S plus 1 over 5 whoops
to the S plus 1 over 7 to the ass so now
I've just got the odd numbers now I can
do the same trick again why stop here
why here we just multiply by 1 over 2 to
the s and then subtracted away all of
those numbers and that left me with just
the odd terms if I now do 1 over 3 to
the S times this I'll get 1 over 3 plus
2 times 3 is 6 plus 3 times 3 is 9 so I
now instead of having the even numbers
where have I put my eraser there it is
so now instead of having the even
numbers I've got all of the powers of 3
so if I also subtract off the same thing
again so if I now do this thing all of
the odd numbers minus 1 over 3 to the s
Z 2 of s that gives me this factor here
then I also lose my powers of 3 so this
has now become 1 plus they would have
next one we 1 over 5 plus 1 over 7 plus
8 is gone because it's even 9 is gone as
the power of 3 tends gone because it's
even the next one would be 11 and so now
I can keeping this you'll notice that
the numbers I'm left with are starting
to look very much like the prime numbers
of course I would have for example that
would be a 25 would eventually appear in
there but if I keep doing the same trick
of subtract
off or multiplying by one minus one over
prime number two the S I begin to rule
out all of these various factors and
because the prime numbers build up every
single other number if you do this for
all of the primes you're just left with
what
so to summarize that we've started with
this is e to the s and then what we've
done is subtracting off all of these
bits so I've got like dot dot dot coming
in and then I've done 1 minus 1 over 5
to the S down to 1 minus 1 over 3 to the
S down to 1 minus 1 over 2 to the S
times e through s and because I've done
this for every single prime number the
only thing I left with is 1 so I've got
this infinite product shown by these
three dots here so it carries do these
numbers get bigger and bigger and bigger
it'd be seven then 11 then 13 and I've
got this infinite product equal to 1 so
if I now just divide both sides by the
product I've got 0 of S is 1 divided by
1 minus the prime to the minus s so
exactly what each of these term are this
is P equals 5 this one is P equals 3 and
this is P equals 2 so that is sort of
where this formula comes from and then
because we now have this relationship
between the zeta function and the prime
numbers this is this is quite a subtle
idea but this is why the Riemann
hypothesis is talked about the fact that
if we were to prove it it would help us
understand the prime numbers so we are
pretty certain it's true so it's not the
result of the Riemann hypothesis itself
that actually tells us more about the
prime numbers it's not that the read the
way we're going to find more out about
the primes through a proof of this
millennium problem
in order to prove it we're probably not
necessarily but we are pretty likely to
have to use this relationship and so a
proof of the Riemann hypothesis again
not the result itself because we're
pretty sure that's true but in order to
prove it it's possibly going to involve
using this formula and therefore there
must it's very likely that there must be
some new knowledge about the prime
numbers that was used in the proof so
just to reiterate if we prove the
Riemann hypothesis it doesn't
necessarily mean we know anything new
about the prime numbers the hypothesis
itself doesn't tell us anything
specifically about the prime numbers the
key idea is a proof of it will almost
certainly involve this product which
will therefore involve new knowledge
about the prime numbers
so whenever the Riemann hypothesis is
talked about in reference to prime
numbers it's because we're probably
going to have to learn something new
about the primes in order to be able to
prove Riemann right I talk definitely
long enough on the first one see because
I'm trying to do seven here so I better
move on to the second one and so that is
my I hope I vaguely explained what the
Riemann hypothesis is as I said
purposefully don't want to go into real
detail because I could do hours on it
right so that was the first one um next
on my list is a P versus NP of course
there's there is there is an actual
order to these if you look at the the
Clay Institute website I think I don't
think I'm completely following it but
it's something like the order I think
I'm planning to do them then so P versus
NP is gonna be next so this is number
two P merson's
okay right um so the million-dollar
question here is to do with basically
how fast computers can calculate or
solve problems
this is why P versus NP is often used in
sci-fi movies I think it was referenced
in Will Smith Will Smith's movie I Robot
I'm pretty sure they reference P versus
NP which is amazing that mentions such
an advanced math problem either in a big
Hollywood movie and the reason they do
that is because it's all about
computational power of computers so the
the idea is as follows we have two types
of problem P and NP that's why as P
versus NP and we have NP problems which
you basically can say are problems a
computer can check position easily so
this just means that if you have a given
problem that you want to computer to
solve or a given problem you're
interested in you can set up the problem
for the computer and then you can give
it a solution and it will quickly pewter
can check and tell you yes or no is your
solution correct to the parameters of
the problem so NP problems can be
checked easily now P problems you can
solve these easily and when I say easily
we're talking about the computational
power required to solve the problem so
how fast the computer can do it of
course in real time right we're saying
here you know to us it seems ridiculous
how fast computers can work obviously
much faster than the human brain for you
know say arithmetic and things but here
we're talking about sort of speed in the
context of a computer so it's often
referred to as a polynomial time or
exponential time and things like that
that's the kind of sort of technical
jargon that we're dealing with so any
problems can be checked easily and
quickly so you can verify a solution
quickly but P problems you can solve
them you can find the
solution quickly and easily so we then
have comparing the two you have like
this kind of Venn diagram situation so
you've got if this is NP these are all
of my NP problems so anything in this
circle can be easily checked the
solution can be easily checked now if I
have a problem which is P if I have a
problem where a computer can easily find
the solution then automatically it can
easily check the solution so you have to
think about this one for a second so the
idea is if a computer can easily and
quickly solve a problem then it
automatically can easily in quickly
verify or check the solution because to
check a solution the computer can just
solve the the problem anyway
okay so just again this is the kind of
that like what's the word this is the
where it's a little bit technical but
the idea is again anything that is P
anything that can be solved easily is
automatically NP because if a computer
needs to check a solution and it can
very quickly find the solution in the
first place it's just going to solve it
really quickly and then check so
automatically anything that's P has to
be inside here so all of the problems
which are P are automatically inside NP
as well because it is easy to solve it
the computer will just find the solution
and then it can check it really easily
as well and then the million-dollar
question is is this bit in between so
the bit I've shaded the million dollar
question is is this actually empty so it
kind of says the million dollars is
those P equal NP so we know that P is
inside and P so P
is definitely contained in NP because
anything that's in P anything is easy to
solve is easy to check P is definitely
inside NP but we don't know if NP is
inside P if we can show that NP is
inside P that means they're equal and
that means you get a million dollars or
maybe they're not the same thing
so maybe there's something here perhaps
some particular problem some type of
problem which is n P and not P and then
this would not be equal and you have to
show either of those things you either
show that P is equal to NP you get a
million dollars you show P is at equals
NP you also get the million dollars it's
kind of like the Riemann one it's good
you don't have to prove it you can
either do you can disprove it or prove
it
from the experts I've spoken to we
believe this to be true we think P is
equal to NP no we don't sorry wrong way
around
we think P and NP are not equal and the
reason possibly that we might think this
or to give you a bit of a feel for but
why I'm talking about for an NP problem
is something called the Traveling
Salesman so the idea of the Traveling
Salesman is kind of the clues in the
name so imagine I am shouldn't rubella
so imagine I'm going around selling
things let's say I'm selling flowery
necklaces because I you know I've loved
wearing mine so much that I'm going to
go around and sell them so the Traveling
Salesman problem says is it possible so
is it possible for me selling my fiery
necklace necklaces to visit let's say a
hundred different towns because I want
you know these things are pretty popular
everyone wants one so I want to visit
100 different towns but I have to do it
in under let's say under a thousand
miles because my car my car is pretty
old so I can't I can't drive forever
so the question is can I find a route
between 100 specified towns so let's say
there are a hundred places around
England I
want to visit all 100 of these but I
have to do it in under a thousand miles
right because I have a limit to how far
I'm willing to travel or because my
car's gonna break down after a thousand
miles now this is the Traveling Salesman
problem and this at the moment is what
we would call an NP problem because it's
really really easy to check the solution
I if I give you what I think is a
solution or I give a computer what I
think is a valid solution to this
problem it's got two things to check do
the names of all one hundred towns
appear on that list if yes then we move
on if no it's not a solution so it
doesn't visit all the towns
question two is the total distance less
than one thousand miles
if yes we have a valid solution we
visited all one thousand sorry or one
hundred towns in under a thousand miles
if no then it's not a valid solution so
it's super easy to check the answer but
to solve this problem is actually really
really hard and this is kind of another
way of thinking about the million dollar
question so at the moment to try and
find this solution the pretty much right
okay there are slightly small
sophisticated algorithms but in general
the way to think about it is if you need
to check if a route between 100 places
exists you kind of have to check all
possible routes so you imagine you've
got to try and check all of these
different routes and see if any of them
have a total length less than a thousand
so to make your first choice of where to
start you have 100 choices of where to
start because you have 100 towns so I'm
allowed to start wherever I want and
then I have after starting let's say I'm
starting in Oxford then I want to go to
wealth wherever I'm going next there are
99 towns left on my list for me to now
visit so I have 99 choices and now I've
visited two places there are 98 left so
I have 98 choices and you continue all
the way down
two times two and then one at the end so
the total number of possible routes is
actually 100 factorial which is 100
times 99 times 98 has 97 all the way
down to 1
now this would be how at the moment
approximately a computer would try to
solve this problem and this is
incredibly slow this is really really
really slow
for a computer to do this and to just
emphasize how slow we can plug in some
numbers so the general formula for n
towns there are n factorial routes so at
the moment
approximately again a computer would
check all n factorial routes to see if
it could find a solution where the total
was less than a thousand miles or
whatever the distance specified distance
was now if you plug in N equals 4 then
the total number of routes for factorial
4 times 3 times 2 that will give 24 so
we have 24 routes to check now that's
not too bad right pretty much any
computer could do that super quick just
check we could do this ourselves in fact
you could check all 24 routes see if any
of them were less than the specified
distance now if you increase this to 10
then we have n factorial routes so
that's now 10 factorial routes 10 times
9 times 8 times 7 times 6 5 4 3 2 1 you
multiply all those numbers together I'm
going to look up this answer because I
want to make sure I get it right and you
get 10 factorial is 3 million six
hundred and twenty eight thousand eight
hundred routes so we're definitely not
doing that by hand there's no way I am
checking three point six million
different routes to see if any of them
are less than one thousand miles right
just not happening but a computer maybe
would do this but of course this is
going to take a lot lot longer than this
one so this is kind of giving a clue as
to how these problems become actually
quite difficult for a computer to solve
this is why this is an NP problem it's
easy to check the answer
hard to find it because if I then went
even further and made this and equals a
hundred if you calculate 100 factorial I
think it's like 9 times 9 and then 157
zeroes or something it's something like
I think it's 9 times 10 to the 157 and
if you took the world's fastest
supercomputer today and asked it to try
and solve Traveling Salesman for 100
towns like I've written here with some
maximum distance the exact problem I
wrote down if you asked a computer the
world's fastest supercomputer to solve
this right now it would take longer than
the age of the universe billions upon
billions of years in order to actually
solve this problem on the world's
fastest supercomputer we currently have
so the question is is the Traveling
Salesman problem actually just really
difficult to solve is it an example of
something that is n P and not P it's
easy to check but it's hard to solve is
it is that true in which case
potentially right we have an example of
something that's NP but not P so P does
not equal NP hello million dollars or is
it in fact that the method of checking
all of the roots is actually just as we
can see painfully slow so is it a case
that we just haven't yet found the
correct way to solve the problem so
there's two ways of looking at this
either the Traveling Salesman is an
example of something which is n P and
not P and therefore P does not equal NP
or P does equal NP and just this method
is awful and we just yet haven't
discovered a better way to do it that
would show the Traveling Salesman
problem was in fact P I'm in a nutshell
the Traveling Salesman problem kind of
explains P versus NP and my other fun
favorite thing about this which is why I
picked N equals 10
favorite fun fact about this if you go
on Google Maps and you literally try
this right now you go in Google Maps and
you go and you can put in like I want to
go from A to B and then you can add
those points where it says via so you
can go A to B via C via D via e the
maximum you can put in is ten different
cities because on purpose Google
obviously doesn't want to break its own
servers because if it allowed you to
enter a hundred different locations and
then you ask Google Maps to find the
shortest route it would basically break
Google so they have purposefully put in
a feature that doesn't let you put in
more than ten different places so that
they can still have a chance of solving
it right that'll do for P versus NP
because again I want to get to the core
of these problems so I think the others
will be a bit shorter I better make them
a bit short if I'm going to get through
this in the next half hour or so right
so next what was on my list and next I'm
gonna do yang-mills theory okay so we're
gonna look at the third one young mills
Ferry and the mass gap hypothesis okay
third million dollar millennium problem
now yang-mills theory is all to do with
physics it's all to do with quantum
theory and in short yang-mills theory
this part is what is used by physicists
used by physicists to describe quantum
fields and the the sort of million
dollar question is physicists have this
theory right called yang-mills theory
and they use it to describe quantum
fields they do experiments to check the
validity of Young Mills theory and this
is verified by experiments so it's used
to describe quantum fields and it's
verified by experiments verified
experimentally and one part of this
theory one part of Young Mills theory
says there is something called the mass
cap so this appears in yang-mills theory
so one way of thinking about what a mass
cap is is sort of saying well we have
like we have a basically continuous
spectrum values for the mass so the mass
of an object can be really really really
big all the way up to you know as large
as you want and it can go really really
really small but it stops there is a
definite minimum mass and then there's
zero mass so there's a gap so mass
itself is continuous except when you get
near zero there is a gap between this
non zero value and zero so it's no
longer continuous but when you get very
close to zero so that in a nutshell is
the mass gap and that pops up in
yang-mills theory describing quantum
fields and the way
you earn a million dollars is you have
to take the physicist theory and all of
their experimental results which show it
to be true and you need to formulate a
rigorous mathematical theory - that
actually agrees with what the physicists
see experimentally so you've kind of
gotta go back to the very very beginning
start from some simple axioms about the
quantum world and from those axioms
build up a complete rigorous
mathematical theory which agrees with
the physicists yang-mills theory and
also demonstrates the mass gap so it is
important the millennium problem itself
does specify that your theory your
mathematical theory must verify and
validate the mass cap so pretty abstract
it's pretty it's pretty complex I spent
a couple of weeks ago I actually sat
down and one of my colleagues at some
John's in Oxford Christopher Beebe he's
awesome awesome chap and he actually is
doing research in this field and we sat
down and I think for about four hours
and he attempted to try and explain to
me what his interpretation of this
problem and it the the mass involved is
actually insane if you've done any well
if you've done very advanced maths you
may have heard of things called path
integrals which are used by physicists
and it's all as far as I could tell from
his explanation also do with path
integrals but big picture here we're
going for an overview of the problems
not the actual technical details big
picture is physicists have a theory it
works their experiments verify their
theory maths hasn't yet caught up with
physics
so as mathematicians we the challenge is
to go back and properly derive
yang-mills theory from a set of axioms
such that the resultant theory agrees
with what physicists see and I'll get
you a million dollars and it's a pretty
exciting one I like this one because
you've kind of got to invent new maths
to be able to do this
you are literally deriving a brand-new
mathematical model like sort of not too
far akin from like Einstein's theory of
relativity like Einstein did all of the
complicated maths to come up with the
theory so here we've got the physics
already telling us these things should
be true so the challenges for
mathematicians to catch up with the
physicists right and I'm gonna leave
that one there
short and sweet okay number four on our
millennium problem list the next one
I've got here is going to be the birch
and Swinton dire conjecture once they
have another sip of champ champagne
Cheers so the birch the straightest in
diet conjecture our fourth one birch
when it's conjecture okay
right and the best printed architecture
is all to do with things called elliptic
curves so an elliptic curve and lip tic
electric curve has a particular form of
equation it's y squared equals x cubed
let me just check I've got that right
yeah X cubed plus ax plus B where a and
B are your constant coefficients right
so we've got two variables we've got
white X two variables and we have a
single equation so you could think of
this perhaps as the solution here is
sort of underdetermined
because we have one equation but two
variables x and y so if x and y we're
allowed to be real numbers there are an
infinite number of solutions to this
equation which could be seen by drawing
the graph so the
pending on the values of a and B you get
different graphs but they have quite fun
shapes so I think I'll show you a couple
you can of course google this and look
it up it's really interesting you have
one which kind of comes in kind of just
something like this then goes out so
this is for a and B both nonzero and
then I think if you either increase or
decrease one of A or B it's not very
helpful that covers everything but if
you slightly fix one fix one parameter
and slightly vary the other it then
causes like a pinching so it causes
these two bits to come closer and closer
together so this kind of comes down and
then eventually they pinch off and you
get something where you have a circle
and I call this I think of this as like
a bow and arrow
cuz this to me like how it looks like a
bow don't know so this is like a bow and
arrow type graph and then this is the
more general sort of continuous well
they're both continuous put anyway join
Pat connected there you go that one's
path connected that one's not this one
is disjoint right so anyway elliptic
curves they look very fun and drawing
the graph is giving me an infinite
number of solutions right cuz I'm
drawing this is y and this is X so
clearly all the points along this graph
are values of x and y satisfying this
equation now the vs. wants to die a
conjecture then isn't just to do with
solutions to this equation
well it's to do in a particular type of
solution so instead of saying x and y
can be any real number what we do is we
say well we want x and y to be rational
so we want them to belong to Q which
means they are rational numbers right so
a rational number is the fraction just
for the case those of us who maybe
haven't heard of them so we want to
consider rational or fraction solutions
for x and y and you can think of this as
imposing an additional condition so I
said that we had
single one equation in two variables but
now as well as satisfying the equation
we also say they have to be rational so
now we've kind of imposed an additional
constraint on trying to find a solution
and then what we're interested in for
the Baroness minutes and Dyer conjecture
is given an elliptic curve so if I call
this elliptic curve II given an elliptic
curve II I want to know does e have
finite finitely or infinitely many
rational infinite the many rational
solutions so this is something we're
interested in if you've ever stood
elliptic curves this is the kind of
question you ask about an elliptic curve
given your equation and you say does it
have finitely many or infinitely many
rational solutions and the birch this
witness and dire conjecture basically
says is there a shortcut to answering
this question and we think there is is
the answer so we think according to and
I need to look this off because it's
pretty pretty abstract name well
absolute very complicated name so we
think that we have a shortcut way of
doing this so we have something called
the it's called the ha servile L
function a servile L function and it
kind of actually looks a bit like the
Riemann zeta-function a little bit so we
have the ha servile l function and then
the birch twinness entire which is L and
it's a function of your elliptic curve e
so you plug in your lip to curve and
some variable s and then the birch
bullets and dire conjecture BSD for
short says if the house of vile function
of your elliptic curve when s is 1
alright so you plug in your elliptic
curve take you into curve plug it in
here put s equal to one if this is 0
then we have infinitely many rational
solutions and if this is not zero
otherwise finitely many and that's it in
a nutshell so recap versus minutes
entire conjecture interesting elliptic
curves they have they always have this
form y squared equals x cubed plus
something times X plus B they are
they're actually used in cryptography
and they're used as the encryption on
iMessage so any of you who have an
iPhone and any of you who have an iPhone
and use our message you're actually
without realizing it it's overlay on top
of that elliptic curves so you so you
have a very practical use we're
interested in elliptic curves we're
interested in specifically solutions to
the elliptic curves which are rational
fractions and then we want to know does
there does given a particular to curve
does e have finite rational solutions or
infinitely many rational solutions
that's what we want to know and the
Bertrand's and dire conjecture says well
there's an easy way to check this you
plug your elliptic curve into this
hasser vial l function very complicated
thing but you plug it in and set s to be
one if that's zero then you've got
infinitely many otherwise you've only
got finitely many but so we've checked
this for lots and lots of different
elliptic curves and it seems to be true
but we don't have a proof
so again if you're a mathematician
you'll know just because something holds
true for like ten thousand or ten
billion cases doesn't mean it's a proof
right if you're a physicist and you do
an experiment ten thousand times and get
the same result then you're happy you're
done right
as a physicist that's that's all you're
gonna need but as a mathematician you
need this this universal truth you need
the proof to say that it's definitely
100% true so we think this is true but
we don't have a proof so that's Bertrand
is in dire right three to go
turn remember where I might go next I
think Hodge might be next you know yeah
let's do Hodge conjecture
so Hodge is by far the most difficult to
understand as a non-expert
I don't know which one is the most
difficult to solve probably Riemann
seeing as everyone's tried it no one
solved it yet but in terms of the most
difficult to understand is definitely
the Hodge conjecture so I'll do my best
everybody I am gonna have another drink
of champagne however okay I think I need
it I'm gonna try to explain large
conjecture okay right I'm gonna start by
writing out what the Hodge conjecture is
because I think I think we I think the
best way to try and get a feel for Hodge
conjecture is I'll write out what it is
and then I'll try and explain to you
what each part means and then that's I
think as good as we're going to get here
so this is five isn't it five is the
hunch right so our fifth million-dollar
prize problem says let X be a non
singular non singular complex projective
manifold so already I mean I won't lie I
was a little lost when I first read this
statement but bear with me I'm gonna
explain it all
so X is this very complicated looking
thing then the Hodge conjecture says
they're not implies that every Hodge
class on X is a linear combination
combination with rational coefficients
and we just talked about rational
numbers rational rational coefficients
of the co homology classes homology
classes of complex nearly done last
three words complex sub varieties of X
right and if you're lost don't worry I
was lost first time I saw this it's it's
ridiculous right as I said this is by
far the most difficult millennium
problem to explain to a non-expert
by absolute mile that's why it's
generally not covered by most people but
you know I said I do all of them so
we're gonna do all them now let's think
about some of these words so I get some
different colors to help me out so what
I should mention first is the Hodge
conjecture itself is all to do with
topology now again if you've done some
university level maths you you've at
least heard of topology perhaps even
studied it topology can be thought of as
geometry without distance so you no
longer care about distances so geometry
you know to do with shapes and things
topology it's kind of geometry but you
don't care about distance as much so
we're working in topology
we have this thing X which the Hodge
conjecture is about an X the key word
here is it's a manifold so what does it
mean to be a manifold that's the first
thing we need to try and understand so a
manifold again from a simple terms as I
think I can explain a manifold is an
object that when you're really close to
it
that up close looks like a 2d Euclidean
plane so nice example for us all
the earth is a manifold the earth is a
sphere and if anyone comments about
flattered that I could kick you out of
the lab job the earth is a sphere but
from where I'm stood right now in Oxford
the earth is flat from where I'm stood
it looks to me like it's flat so locally
the earth behaves as though it's a flat
plane and so that is one of the
properties of a manifold so all this
means is up close looks like a plane
okay so that's all it means so it just
says X is some object in topology the
up-close looks like a plane right that's
all we need then it says every Hodge
class on X so that's clearly some
property to do with X every Hodge class
is a linear combination with rational
coefficients so all that means is you're
building your Hodge class from smaller
pieces so you could have if you had your
Hodge class H it's saying here it's a
linear combination so it could be like
alpha of the co homology classes so it
could be alpha times let's not call it X
alpha times y 1 plus beta times y 2 plus
gamma times y 3 where alpha beta and
gamma
our rational numbers and y1 y2 and y3
are things called Co homology classes
right and that's kind of it right so
let's just recap so the Hodge conjecture
the trickiest by million problem says
first of all we're working in topology
right so this is topology as this crazy
world where Donuts and teacups are the
same thing just yes like the classic
thing that's used when talking about
topology now we have this object X which
is a manifold which means that up close
it looks like a plane so think of the
earth or close the earth looks like a
plane so we have some objects that's
like that that's all X's then the Hodge
conjecture says every Hodge class on X
so that's just some property of X every
one of these is actually made up of
smaller pieces added together now these
smaller pieces are other complicated
things called Co homology classes we
don't really need to worry or even care
about what they are the problem itself
the million-dollar question is given
this thing X can its Hodge class be made
up from smaller pieces if yes then the
Hodge conjecture is true if no then it's
false so when I think about the Hodge
conjecture and I did this in the article
I wrote on my website in fact I talked
about it as asking or I always give the
example of building things from Lego so
you're just asking here can I make my
Hodge class from smaller building blocks
kind of like I've done here that's
pretty much it in a nutshell to know
exactly what those building blocks are
you pretty much need to study a
university-level topology so again I'm
going to leave it there but the Hodge
conjecture asks can you break down these
objects into
ecology into smaller pieces that's
pretty much the million dollar question
and again
proof or disproof you get your million
dollars right so that just leaves me
with the final two so number six is
going to be Poincare a and then we will
get to finally get to my favorite now
your Stokes okay so the Poincare
conjecture fortunately I think I can
actually explain this one even though
it's again in the world of topology so
things get pretty weird pretty quickly
ahem but the Poincare conjecture and I
should also say this is the one that's
actually been solved so if you know
anything about the Millennium problems
I'm sure you will have known that this
is the one that's been solved but if you
didn't this one has actually been solved
which is awesome so the Poincare
conjecture was solved by a chap called
Gregory Perelman in 2002 and 2003 now
what is it let's start there so in 1904
Poincare a who the conjecture is named
after came along and basically said that
in n dimensions so in any number of
dimensions any smooth finite object with
no holes again I'm purposefully writing
this without using technical terms just
in case anyone watching is a topologist
I am doing this on purpose
uh-huh in n dimensions any smooth finite
object with no holes is basically or can
be deformed shall we say tell me to form
into a sphere into I ends there I should
say
right and that's kind of it this one's
this one's a bit a bit more straight
forwards than the than the Hodge
conjecture so this is what pine Kerry
said in 1904 if you take any dimensional
space so we're working in n dimensions
then if you take an object which is
smooth so it has no sharp edges right so
it's everything is nice and continuous
nice and smooth object it can certainly
have bumps but it cannot have sharp
edges no points or corners so you have a
smooth object it has to be finite so it
cannot go on forever it has to have some
end to it so that's kind of what this
means and the more technical term here
would be closed for the mathematicians
amongst you so any smooth finite object
with no holes so we cannot have our
coffee cup or our doughnut for example
we cannot have that has to have no holes
be smooth and be finite then we can turn
it into a sphere that's what we're
saying here we're saying it can be
formed be deformed into a sphere
technical term it says is homeomorphic
to a sphere and technical term for
having no holes means path connected
more or less so technical terms are in
brackets for those of you who know more
about topology but don't worry if you
don't it just says in whatever dimension
I'm in if I've got something that's
smooth no sharp edges this isn't you
know thinking about shape says I've got
a shape it's got no sharp edges is
finite so it doesn't doesn't go on
forever and it has no holes in it then I
can turn it into a sphere and when I say
sphere
I've purposefully said here and ends
there so what I mean is I mean a sphere
in that number of dimensions so in three
dimensions this is an actual sphere in
two dimensions it would be a circle in
four dimensions it would be a 4d sphere
whatever whatever that is
right five dimensions
it would be the five dimensional
equivalent of us here so this is what
prank RA said at the time it's kind of
obvious for N 1 2 & 3
so they were all done because in well
I've just kind of described to you if
I've got something that smooth it has no
sharp edges and has no holes then I can
just imagine it's made out of rubber and
I'm thinking 3d but I've got a ball of
blue TAC or a ball of play-doh if I
could just roll it together and get a
sphere and that's what I mean by I can
be deformed into so it's kind of
obviously true in 1d 2d and 3d because
you can build the model and you can do
it yourself now the tricky bit is pan
karere expects this to be true for all
dimensions and so it was here I'm gonna
get the years correct check this it was
in 1961
so 57 years later when Steven Smail
American mathematician I actually I got
to meet Steven Smail in about six months
ago now and took a selfie with him so
you should totally check out my selfie
with Steve Israel on my Instagram
profile obviously at tom blocks max but
he didn't look too happy but he did let
me take a selfie with him which was
awesome so he proved it for N greater
than or equal to 6 so came up with a
very clever proof that showed the
Poincare conjecture this thing any
smooth finite object with no holes can
be turned into a sphere steam is smile
in 1961 showed it was true but and
greater than or equal to 6 so all the
way up to infinity and including N
equals 6 then it took a further 22 years
1983 along comes Michael Friedman
another American mathematician and he
proved it for N equals 5 and then this
remained unsolved until the year 2000
and then in the year 2000 the Millennium
problem the million dollar question in
the year 2000 was can you prove this
statement
for N equals four so is it true that in
four dimensions a smooth finite object
with no holes can be deformed into a
four sphere that was the million dollar
question and it was solved in 2002 by
Gregory Perelman and there's a whole
story here unfortunately
I don't think I can go into massive
amounts of detail about the story but in
short Perelman had been working on this
since the early 90s so he clearly wasn't
motivated by the money in any way he was
just a topologist wanted to solve an
interesting problem and he published his
proof on the archive so he just posted
it online in 2002 without really telling
anyone doing anything just kind of put
it there and then disappeared um and he
was amazing like at first I took a while
to gain traction because lots of people
published proofs online all the time but
eventually people began to realize like
no this is legit this is a real proof
and he was finally in 2006 was awarded
the Fields Medal for his work which he
turned down
I should add uh-huh and then in 2010
took another four years he was awarded
the Millennium prize and again he
actually turned down the millennium
prize in 2010 so Gregory Perelman solved
it published it online won the Fields
Medal like the biggest award you can get
as a young mathematician turned it down
was eventually awarded the million
dollars and even turned that down as
well so awesome story you could totally
look up Gregory Perlman and the story
behind this I don't want to say anymore
because it's kind of all it's all kind
of gossip because he never really did
any interviews so most of the stories
that are told around his proof are kind
of from hearsay rather than from him
himself
but there's loads of interesting stuff
about it right as to why he would turn
down the prize money why you know he
turned down the Fields Medal etc etc so
that's the point
krei conjecture which finally leads me
on to navier-stokes so and this is going
to be the final mounting problem I'm
gonna have my final bit of champagne
before I start taking my clothes off all
right champagnes gone class number two
for the day right so the plan is to talk
about the seventh and final millenium
problem navier-stokes my favorite at
this one I'm gonna do in the style of my
equation strip series so I'm gonna do it
in three layers as the plan so to kick
us off we have layer number one the
equations themselves and what they model
and I should just warn everyone this is
the part where I will be taking off some
of my clothes so if you're not into that
by all means you can you can leave I
will not be offended right so now you're
Stokes equations this is our main
problem number seven navier-stokes okay
so the equations themselves if I'm to
write out the most general form that I
can for navier-stokes that's going to be
first one let's go with this formulation
D Rho by DT plus grad dot Rho u equals
not my first one my second now a Stokes
equation is going to be Rho capital D u
by DT going to be equal to grad dot
Sigma plus Rho okay so this is the a
more general version of navier-stokes
that I normally talk about so there's a
reason I'm starting with the most
general version because these equations
as they are written will model basically
any fluid on earth possibly any fluid as
space who even knows but any fluids you
can think of
is modeled by this set of equations so
the top one is one equation because it's
a scalar equation and the second one is
a vector equation so there are actually
three components to this equation
because we have a vector vector vector
this isn't this is a tensor so that will
turn into a vector so there's actually
four equations in total this one's one
and there are three hidden in here now
these equations will model the behavior
and the motion that describe the motion
of any fluid that you can think of so
I've got a few examples I like to talk
about here so one of them being
something like aerodynamics so if you're
trying to build a supersonic jet so at
the moment there's a lot of or at least
I guess pre-pre virus and pre lockdown
there's a lot of talk about at least
from aerodynamics people I've been
speaking to about the excitement of
building the first sort of hypersonic
passenger plane and that's like a very
very interesting engineering and
aerodynamics problem and that is going
to require navier-stokes because you're
trying to model air flow around an
object so air is behaving like a fluid
here and so it's going to satisfy these
equations then you've got something that
I work on so looking at climate modeling
for example looking at the Earth's
atmosphere and even on a smaller scale
looking at local weather systems that's
going to require the navier-stokes
equations because the clouds in the sky
the air streams the Gulf streams etc in
the atmosphere the tides and the waves
in the ocean it's all the motion of
fluids and it's all going to be
described by these equations and you can
even go further and look at the motion
of ice sheets so the again in the last
few years there's been various news
articles about the ice sheets in
antarctica how they're receding how
they're melting and carving which is
when part of it falls off and all of
that that motion of the ice is again
explained by these equations because ice
will behave like a fluid if you've ever
seen a time lapse
video of a glacier flowing down a
mountain and you speed it up now if you
record a glacier for a year and then you
speed up the video it looks like it's
flowing like a river so ice with some
appropriate modifications is modeled by
these equations and then the final
example I want to mention is blood flow
around the body so this is a very very
practical use of the navier-stokes I
think all of the applications are
practical but this one in particular
because if we we model blood flow around
the body right it's a fluid being pumped
around your body through a pressure but
your heart creates a pressure forces the
blood around your body so the the motion
is explained by these equations but then
if we understand these equations better
which is kind of what the million dollar
question is can we improve our
understanding of these equations it's
very vague but that's how you get the
million dollars improving our
understanding or unlocking the secrets
of navier-stokes and so if we're able to
do that then what that's going to mean
is we understand blood flow better and
so you can design better drugs because
you can design drugs specifically to be
delivered to special parts of the body
faster more efficiently more reliably
etc so these equations are they really
are amazing right you can tell I
obviously love them because they have so
schatz a wide range of different
applications right so I think that is
pretty much our first layer so I'm just
gonna pop over here and I'll be back in
a second
gonna have to excuse the wires this is
the the one downside of having improved
my equipment means that I now have an
actual good mic but it means I've got
wire stuck to me
so anyway stripping back to our second
layer of the navier-stokes equations I
want to talk a little bit about what
these equations represent and sort of
where they came from so the equations
themselves what we've actually got going
on here is okay how's the best way for
me to do this let's start with the
overarching sort of where they came from
what they represent so the first one
here is the conservation of mass so this
equation the top line it I don't know
whether it does or doesn't look like
it's got anything to do with mass but
this top line tells you that if I have a
section of fluid a blob of fluid and
then the fluid moves around a little bit
perhaps with some velocity then as long
as I don't add anything to the fluid or
take away anything from the fluid then
the mass of the fluid will be entirely
the same so if you're so in other words
mass is conserved right so if you have a
blob of fluid it moves around nothing's
added nothing's taken away then I have
the same amount of fluid and so
therefore I have conservation of mass
mass is conserved in the system so
that's what this equation means I'm
going to talk later a little bit more
about where it comes from but for now
let's just believe me this is telling
you that mass is conserved which is a
very reasonable thing to expect for a
fluid when you don't add things or take
things away now the second one here this
believe it or not is Newton's second law
so this is Newton's second law
also known as a conservation of linear
momentum
term and also of course known as F
equals MA
also known as F equals hey now to see
why this might be Newton's second law
what we can do is think a little bit
about some of these terms so what I mean
here is for example this first term this
row so row here is the density so this
is the density of your fluid and so in
this context I mean density of course is
not mass but density times volume would
give you the mass so this is kind of
playing the role of the mass in my
Newton's second law so this term here is
kind of squiggly line is kind of the
mass and then the next term I've got a
time derivative of the velocity so I've
got you which is a velocity and then
I've got the time rate of change of that
velocity so if velocity changes over
time that is how we define the
acceleration acceleration or
deceleration your change in velocity is
an acceleration so this is exactly the
acceleration term and then everything
over here on this side this thing here
is called the Koshi stress tensor and
this basically represents as we will see
in layer three this represents the
internal forces
our internal forces and then at the end
this F represents the external or body
forces external / body forces so overall
just to recap we've got a density times
and acceleration so this is like mass
times acceleration this is the MA in
Newton's second law and then the whole
of the right hand side just is various
forces we've got the internal forces
here and then we've got our external
forces here so this whole equation is
just F equals MA it's just Newton's
second law which seems again a very
sensible thing to sort of talk about and
expect to be true for a moving fluid so
equation one tells you mass is conserved
equation two tells you that Newton's
second law holds so that in sort of from
a physics perspective completes the
second layer of our equations and
explains what and where the
navier-stokes equations come from so
right sniffing back to our
of the navier-stokes equations I want to
actually go more in depth and I've gone
in any of my previous videos talking
about this they want to actually show
you why the the top equation is the
conservation of mass so at this point
I'm gonna rub off the bottom equation
I'm going to rub off Newton's second law
and were just going to concentrate on
mass conservation so and this is where
it's gonna get more mathematical for
those of you who've been hoping for some
real formulas so our third layer is
going to be looking at deriving the
conservation of mass equation now this
as I've said tells me that mass is
conserved so if you think about what
that means mathematically that says that
if I have an expression M for my mass if
mass is going to be conserved then that
means that the mass will not change over
time right so if mass is conserved
nothing is added or taken away so mass
will not change over time so that means
that the time derivative DM by DT must
be equal to zero this is exactly
mathematically how you would write out
conservation of mass now if you want to
sort of go a step further which we do we
need to write down well what is the mass
of my fluid so if I have some fluid over
here and this is going to be at time
let's say T equals naught so it's a
volume at time T equals naught and it
has some density Rho okay so some
function has a density which could be a
function of time and space who knows but
it's got this particular shape then
suppose my fluid moves at some speed U
so it has a velocity U and my blob of
fluid moves then maybe now has a
different shape okay so maybe now look
like that so the volume here is B of T
at some later time but the density is
still the same so this is a situation
that hopefully you can picture so
imagine this is a section of fluid in a
river so it has a fixed density and it
has some shape to it has a volume and
then it moves at some speed you down the
river and then it has a new shape so the
volume here is a function of time this
is really important as a new shape and
it's moved at some speed U so what that
tells you is your mass which remember we
want the time rate of change of the mass
to be zero so the mass is equal to the
integral over the volume of my density
so this triple integral is my mass you
take your density function Rho and you
integrate over the volume that you're
interested in and that will give you
your entire mass right density is mass
times volume but because we have this
time-dependent volume and density might
be a function of space instead of just
multiplying by the volume the great over
the volume now we want to show that this
is zero because we're saying mass is
conserved so the time derivative of mass
is going to be zero mass doesn't change
with respect to time so what we want to
do is take our derivative D by DT take
this inside our integral now some of you
may know how to do this may have seen
this before you take your full
derivative outside and it becomes a
partial derivative inside it's called
live knits rule so Leibniz rule would
say take this inside it becomes a
partial derivative inside my integral
however when you apply Leibniz rule you
have a constant volume over which you're
integrating however here
don't have that because here our volume
depends on time so when I do my time
derivative I have to somehow account for
the fact that I have time dependence in
my limit and the way we do that is using
a theorem which you can go ahead and
prove or you can look it up I'm just
going to state it for now
it's called Reynolds transport theorem
but what Reynolds transport theorem
tells you is how to take a time
derivative when you have time dependence
in your volume so Reynolds transport
theorem say is that this is equal to the
triple integral over the volume but then
instead of just a partial derivative you
get the partial derivative that you
expect from liveness rule plus a
divergence so you get grad dot Rho u DB
so this is basically exactly what
Reynolds transport theorem says you have
to you know you can go and look up the
proof or try and prove it yourself if
you really want but you use this result
to take the derivative inside the
integral and now we've got that this
must be equal to zero so then the final
step to get this to be our equation at
the top our conservation of mass
equation is that here I have assumed my
volume my V of T I have assumed this to
be arbitrary so I haven't specified that
this has to have a particular shape or
has to have a particular value so if I'm
integrating something over any shape I
want and I get zero then that tells you
the thing I'm integrating has to be zero
so you can make this more rigorous you
can consider your volume if you make
your volume be zero zero zero a little
bump and then zero everywhere else and
you call this like a radius epsilon bump
and you let epsilon tends to zero but
either way if
this thing this triple integral is zero
over all possible arbitrary volumes then
the thing inside the integral has to in
fact be zero so you just take this and
put it up here and you get conservation
of mass now you basically do the exact
same for your second one to get Newton's
equation so if I just get you to the
second law sorry the conservation of
momentum so I will very very quickly
outline how that works and then I think
we'll call it a day
so the idea then is if you think about a
new second Newton second law force is
mass times acceleration which is also
equal to the rate of D by DT of the
linear momentum isn't it so MMB now so
Newton's second law F equals rate of
time rate of change of the momentum so
again exactly as we just did you write
down D by DT of triple integral of my
momentum my momentum here is the
integral over the volume of the density
times the velocity integral DV so this
is my time rate of change of linear
momentum this has to be equal to the
forces so here you have internal force
plus external force and then all you do
is exactly as we did before you take
this inside by the Reynolds transport
theorem you write out what this is which
is like a triple integral of Grant
stress tensor your external force is
triple integral Rho times F DV and then
you put everything together
you're integrating it all to give you
those so the thing you're integrating
must be zero so when you do that you get
your second navier-stokes equation right
I've definitely gone on far too long
veneering an hour and a half it was
mentally an hour livestream but I have
just done all seven Millennium problems
in 90 minutes so you know what I reckon
I deserve another glass of champagne I
think so I was gonna say I can do some
questions but as I said I've already
think I've gone on far too long so maybe
I will do some kind of Q&A or something
in the future where I'll let everybody
ask questions and different things but
for now again thank you I think I do
deserve the bottle Sir Isaac so again
thank you so much to everybody for for
tuning in thank you for subscribing to
my channel thank you for joining me for
the celebration of course you can
re-watch this right this is gonna be
available on YouTube tomorrow by the
time they process it so you can come
back and watch this and learn about all
seven Millennium problems and watch me
drink another glass of champagne I'm
gonna go now finish off the ball and and
continue celebrating so again thank you
so much everybody I will actually be
back in a week with another livestream
because next Friday at the exact same
time I'll be doing my final Q&A for Tom
rocks mass appeal so we'll start by
talking about probability but then I'll
open it up to live chat questions so
again thank you everyone hope you've
enjoyed learning problems hope you
enjoyed me doing equation strip live and
I'll see you all soon